# Pipe Guns Detrashified

<br>The goal of this mod is to add usability and variety to scrap firearms. This is achived mainly by (1) creating a niche for basic pipe guns, namely high burst damage at the cost of ammo efficiency, (2) intruducing additional makeshift firearms in different tiers with different crafting requirements, as well as  scrap weapon exclusive gunmods and (3) allowing makeshift firearms to use several different calibers in various ways and by various methods.

<br>1. Pipe guns have been merged and new ones added. Now there are 4 makeshift "slam fire" guns instead of the basic pipe guns, which all accept a wide range of bullet calibers at the cost of ammo efficiency and fulfill different roles. The basic "pipe gun: XX" has been remade into the "slam fire pipe", which accepts a lot of pistol calibers with the option of swapping out the barrel to be able to use a variety of individual calibers. A 4-barreled and a 2-barreled variants in pistol and rifle calibers respectively have been added in order to have a high burst damage option in the early hobo phase. All 3 carry a 15% damage penalty compared to factory made guns for balance reasons, but also in order to reflect that random commercially avaliable pipes dont make for good ballistics. A "slam fire shotgun" was also added but without the penalty.

<br>2. Pepperbox revolver guns were added. Pepperbox revolver guns are heavy and bulky, have higher crafting requirements, high reload times, but lack the damage penalty of slam fire guns. Instead of having a single barrel and a mechanical action turning the cylinder like a typical "modern" revolver, the "cylinder" of the pepperbox gun itself also contains the several barrels of the gun, and is being rotated into position by hand. The "cylinder" of a pepperbox revolver can be swapped out and reloaded like a magazine, allowing for carrying several cylinders loaded with different calibers instead of carrying several guns. The bulky and heavy nature of the pepperbox guns is offset by their flexibility in regards with ammunition types. There are 2 version so far, a rifle variant and a pistol variant, using different sets of calibers.

<br>3. Top tier handmade .50 rifle was added. The basic ".50 caliber rifle" is a very big, heavy, and annoying gun that made sense before the firearm rework and the endless obsoletions of gunmods, but is more of a "strap it in a turret" kind of weapon now simply because it has negative utility. Furthermore, .50 cal rifles are pretty rare in the wild so you still wont come around using it if you need the firepower. In order to alleviate those issues, a top tier "handmade anti-materiel" rifle was added. Having higher crafting requirements, it is a straight upgrade from the ".50 caliber rifle" in terms of utility and performs slightly worse than the worst factory-made .50 cal rifle in the base game, the "Serbu". As it cannibalizes parts from the ".50 caliber rifle", you can use either that or the M2 Browning as crafting ingredients.

<br>4. "Handmade six-shooter" and "handmade handcannon" were slightly tweaked in order to allow them to be converted to different calibers. The handcannon recieved a buff and accepts .44s round by default now instead of .45, with the option of .223 via conversion kit.

<br>Multi-caliber, scrap weapon exclusive conversion kits added. This was done in order to allow unicorn calibers to be useful instead of just lying in the corner of your base, and to add utility to scrap firearms.

<br>More multi-caliber options on the way.
